[Music]
you're one of the world's
biggest pop stars you're rich
you're famous and you look amazing
why would you risk it all by inviting
your fan base backstage
pop stars like m.i.a taylor swift katy
perry
beyonce and lady gaga have all enlisted
documentary filmmakers to help shape
their stories
the assumption being of course that the
telling
will be sanctioned you can use none of
that
stars like beyonce lady gaga and taylor
swift
occupy their own worlds distinct from
the average fans realities
[Applause]
[Music]
many of these films draw from archive
footage to bolster our perceptions
of their subject's pre-existing talent
[Applause]
here's mia documenting her wild behind
the scenes life on tour with justine
freischmann
lead singer of elastica a band whose
fame she has now eclipsed
[Music]
you should repeat that in steve
loverage's 2018 film
matangi maya mia he uses a lot of
footage that mia had shot herself
over the years to create the feeling of
intimate access
mine have you forgotten the camera
camera phone footage filmed by taylor
swift's boyfriend
is used in a similar way in lana
wilson's miss americana
as an insight into the star's private
life
[Music]
for female pop stars in particular it's
important that these documentaries
depict them at work
we see them exercising creative control
in the studio
in the edit suite and reflecting on
their back catalogues
i'm really happy for you i'm let you
finish but beyonce had one of the best
videos of
all time there are several other reasons
why an artist might want to make a
documentary about her life
they might want to address incidents
that still loom large in public
consciousness
and reflect on their significance years
later it was so echo-y in there
at the time i didn't know they were
booing him doing that
i thought that they were bullied me the
whole crowd booing
is a pretty formative experience
[Music]
they might want to tell their side of
the story like when the nfl
attempted to sue mia for flipping the
bird on live television during the super
bowl
a lawsuit which was subsequently settled
i was sent to screen for approximately
15 seconds
and they want 15 million for it as well
as setting the story straight
artists may want to use these
documentaries to create new narratives
about how good they are you made me
think
that being weird is okay about how well
they're doing
[Applause]
and about how in control they are the
methodology behind what i've done
is that when they wanted me to be sexy
or they wanted me to be pop i
always put some absurd spin on it that
made me feel
like i was still in control right these
films can also help to re-establish a
star's politics
loveridge creates a link between mia's
reading of black activist franz fanon
as a teenager a formative trip to sri
lanka
and her music video for the song borders
a call to arms to address the refugee
crisis
i need to keep the immigrant story in
all my work
always because that is what i'm trying
to make
sense of i just really want you to know
that this is important to me
in miss americana taylor swift argues
with her dad
explaining that she considers it her
responsibility to voice her opinion
about tennessee senator marsha blackburn
whose politics
she disagrees with basic human rights
and it's right and wrong at this point
and i can't
see another commercial and see her
disguising these policies behind the
words
tennessee christian values those aren't
tennessee christian values
this is the build-up to swift sending
the political tweet she was advised
not to send played out for tension
[Music]
i definitely pushed myself further than
i knew i could
yet despite showing how empowered their
stars are
many if not all of these films also
scrutinize the darker consequences
of a woman's life in the spotlight
something that comes up a lot in these
films
is disordered eating and the cost of
having an ideal body
no bread no carbs no sugar
no dairy no meat no fish no alcohol
[Music]
and i'm hungry there is also an
emotional cost
of being famous just wish i had someone
to talk to right now
pop star documentaries as a genre show
how desperately lonely their subjects
can become
despite being surrounded by an
ever-present entourage
in katy perry part of me we see the
heartbroken
emotionally drained katie's face
transform as she plasters on a smile
and ascends to stage
the show it seems must go on
scenes like these reveal fragments of
vulnerability that reveal something
about a star's tenacity
like when overachiever taylor swift
learns that she hasn't been nominated
for any grammy awards
and her expression betrays
disappointment before shifting into
resolve
you know what like this is fine this is
i just need to make a better record the
usually outspoken
mia admits she feels out of her depth at
a political fundraising event
i don't know this world at all
the world of behind the scenes activism
and in lady gaga 5'2 gaga concedes to
her own vanity
even in the grip of chronic pain
scenes like this are why the pop star
documentary endures
we watch these films for glimpses of our
idols relinquishing
control on their terms and i go from
everyone touching me all day
and talking at me all day to total
silence
[Music]
you